docs/plugins.md, before:

# Plugins

Arc can be extended with **plugins**. Plugins add missing functionality to Arc. They are "plugged-in" at compile time. Arc presents a set of functionalities on top of Elasticsearch such as book keeping, 
analytics, streaming and more. An arc plugin can usually interacts with HTTP requests and responses to implement an arbitrary logic. A plugin can extend the functionality of Arc by handling a set of routes or it can serve as a simple middleware to other plugins. 

## File structure

For brevity, all the plugins should (but is not restricted to) follow the following file structure that outline the individual functionalities of each plugin component:

* `routes.go`: Defines a list of routes to interact with the entities and logic that is handled by the plugin.
* `handlers.go`: Defines the respective handlers for the routes handled by the plugin.
* `dao.go`: Plugins might probably require to retain and manage some configuration or information provided by the user. 
	This file should contain the *database access object* that is required to interact with the data store of your choice.
* `middleware.go`: Defines middleware or *chain* of middleware required to wrap the handlers to perform operations before the request is actually served.
* `plugin_name.go`: This is the core of the plugin. This is where the plugin gets registered to Arc.

These are the main components that plugins usually deal with, however a plugin is not restricted to these files structure strictly.

## Implementing a custom plugin

We will consider creating a simple `greeter` plugin that handles the route `GET /greet` and returns a simple greeting message in response to the request.

### 1. Create a package and a type that implements the plugin interface

Following the above directory structure we will create the following required files in a separate Go package called `greeter`:
```
greeter
├── greeter.go
├── routes.go
└── handlers.go
```
The `greeter.go` would be responsible for implementing the `Plugin` interface and registering itself as a plugin to the Arc. The `Plugin` interface has three methods that a type must implement in order to register itself as a plugin:

- `greeter.go`
		
	```go
	package greeter

	import (
		"fmt"
	
		"github.com/appbaseio/arc/arc/plugin"
	)

	const pluginName = "greeter"

	type Greeter struct {
		message string
	}

	// Name returns the name of the plugin. Name of the plugin must be
	// unique as it is the name of the plugin that is used as a key
	// to identify a plugin in the plugins map.
	func (g *Greeter) Name() string {
		return pluginName	
	}

	// InitFunc returns the plugin's setup function that is executed
	// before the plugin routes are loaded in the router.
	func (g *Greeter) InitFunc() error {
		fmt.Printf("%s: initializing plugin...", pluginName)
		return nil	
	}

	// Routes returns the http routes that a plugin handles or is
	// associated with.
	func (g *Greeter) Routes() []plugin.Route {
		return g.routes()
	}
	```
### 2. Define the routes
Define a list of routes that the plugin aims to handle.
- `routes.go`

	```go
	package greeter

	import (
	 	"net/http"
 	
  		"github.com/appbaseio/arc/arc/plugin"
	)
	
	func (g *Greeter) routes() []plugin.Route {
		return []plugin.Route{	
			{
				Name: "Get greetings",
				Methods: []string{http.MethodGet},
				Path: "/greet",
				HandlerFunc: g.greetHandler(),
				Description: "Send greetings",
			},
		}
	}
	```
	
### 3. Implement the handlers
In `handlers.go` implement a method that returns a `http.HandlerFunc` which encapsulates the custom logic to handle a specific route or a set of routes.
- `handlers.go`
	```go
	package greeter 

	import "net/http"

	func (g *Greeter) greetHandler() http.HandlerFunc {
		return func(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
			w.WriteHeader(http.StatusOk)
			w.Write([]byte(g.message))
		}
	}
	```
### 4. Register your plugin.

Within an `init` function, register your plugin with Arc. For example:

- `greeter.go`
	```go
	...
	func init() {
		arc.RegisterPlugin(&Greeter{"Greetings!"})
	}
	...
	```

Commit message:

format(rename): renames the project to reactivesearch-api
- updates README content to explain the project

docs/plugins.md, after:

# Plugins

ReactiveSearch API can be extended with **plugins**. Plugins can enhance/augment the ReactiveSearch. These are "plugged-in" at compile time. ReactiveSearch provides a set of functionalities on top of Elasticsearch such as a declarative querying API, authentication and access controls. A ReactiveSearch plugin can usually interacts with HTTP requests and responses to implement a custom business logic. A plugin can extend the functionality of ReactiveSearch by handling a set of routes or it can serve as a simple middleware to other plugins. 

## File structure

For brevity, all the plugins should (but is not restricted to) follow the following file structure that outline the individual functionalities of each plugin component:

* `routes.go`: Defines a list of routes to interact with the entities and logic that is handled by the plugin.
* `handlers.go`: Defines the respective handlers for the routes handled by the plugin.
* `dao.go`: Plugins might probably require to retain and manage some configuration or information provided by the user. 
	This file should contain the *database access object* that is required to interact with the data store of your choice.
* `middleware.go`: Defines middleware or *chain* of middleware required to wrap the handlers to perform operations before the request is actually served.
* `plugin_name.go`: This is the core of the plugin. This is where the plugin gets registered to Arc.

These are the main components that plugins usually deal with, however a plugin is not restricted to these files structure strictly.

## Implementing a custom plugin

We will consider creating a simple `greeter` plugin that handles the route `GET /greet` and returns a simple greeting message in response to the request.

### 1. Create a package and a type that implements the plugin interface

Following the above directory structure we will create the following required files in a separate Go package called `greeter`:
```
greeter
├── greeter.go
├── routes.go
└── handlers.go
```
The `greeter.go` would be responsible for implementing the `Plugin` interface and registering itself as a plugin to the Arc. The `Plugin` interface has three methods that a type must implement in order to register itself as a plugin:

- `greeter.go`
		
	```go
	package greeter

	import (
		"fmt"
	
		"github.com/appbaseio/reactivesearch-api/plugins"
	)

	const pluginName = "greeter"

	type Greeter struct {
		message string
	}

	// Name returns the name of the plugin. Name of the plugin must be
	// unique as it is the name of the plugin that is used as a key
	// to identify a plugin in the plugins map.
	func (g *Greeter) Name() string {
		return pluginName	
	}

	// InitFunc returns the plugin's setup function that is executed
	// before the plugin routes are loaded in the router.
	func (g *Greeter) InitFunc() error {
		fmt.Printf("%s: initializing plugin...", pluginName)
		return nil	
	}

	// Routes returns the http routes that a plugin handles or is
	// associated with.
	func (g *Greeter) Routes() []plugin.Route {
		return g.routes()
	}
	```

### 2. Define the routes

Define a list of routes that the plugin aims to handle.
- `routes.go`

	```go
	package greeter

	import (
	 	"net/http"
 	
  		"github.com/appbaseio/reactivesearch-api/plugins"
	)
	
	func (g *Greeter) routes() []plugin.Route {
		return []plugin.Route{	
			{
				Name: "Get greetings",
				Methods: []string{http.MethodGet},
				Path: "/greet",
				HandlerFunc: g.greetHandler(),
				Description: "Send greetings",
			},
		}
	}
	```
	
### 3. Implement the handlers

In `handlers.go` implement a method that returns a `http.HandlerFunc` which encapsulates the custom logic to handle a specific route or a set of routes.
- `handlers.go`
	```go
	package greeter 

	import "net/http"

	func (g *Greeter) greetHandler() http.HandlerFunc {
		return func(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
			w.WriteHeader(http.StatusOk)
			w.Write([]byte(g.message))
		}
	}
	```

### 4. Register your plugin.

Place the plugin inside of the `plugins` directory for it to be compiled and registered with the ReactiveSearch API. Finally, to instantiate the plugin, use the `initFunc` function:

- `greeter.go`
	```go
	...
	func InitFunc() {
		// perform any state instantiation, e.g. reading env variables


		return nil
	}
	...
	```
